If you have any word of encouragement, tell it.
Who said those words?
How were what did the Apostle Paul say in response?
How did his audience react and what can Paul's example teach us about encouragement?
Let's open our Bibles to Acts chapter 13.
This is the account of Paul's first missionary tour.
After a dangerous journey of about 110 miles,
Paul and his companions find themselves seated in a synagogue in Pesidian Antioch.
Verse 15 says,
After the public reading of the law and the prophets, the presiding officers of the synagogue
sent word to them saying,
Men, brothers, if you have any word of encouragement for the people, tell it.
Well, the next five paragraphs contain Paul's speech.
How effective was it?
Verses 42 through 44 show the results.
First, the people begged Paul to come back and give another talk the next weekend.
Second, many Jews and proselytes became believers.
Third, the following Sabbath nearly all the city turned out to hear Paul's next talk.
Impressive. We have to ask ourselves,
what did Paul say in those five paragraphs that was so persuasive?
Well, one of the first things we note is his introduction, Acts chapter 13 verse 17.
The God of this people Israel chose our forefathers.
Note that inclusive pronoun, our, not your forefathers, not mine, our forefathers.
Did you realize that the last time that little word was used in the book of Acts
was all the way back in chapter 7 during Stephen's powerful speech.
Stephen used the word hour ten times, usually in connection with the word forefathers.
Paul heard that speech back when he was Saul of Tarsus.
And now more than decade later, he himself uses the exact same expression for the same purpose to establish common ground.
Your ancestors are my ancestors. I am what you are.
And that is the starting point of true encouragement.
The Watchtower article from which our text is taken says that the Greek word usually translated encouragement literally means a calling to one side.
And yes, it's related to the Greek word for comfort, which has a similar connotation.
So Paul began from their perspective.
I know where you're coming from. I grew up learning the same Holy writings as you.
And then in verses 17 through 31, he uses Jewish history and recent events to prove that Jesus was the Messiah.
Then in verses 32 through 37, he connects current events with fulfilled prophecy, prophecy they knew.
And we do that today, don't we? We go to the door. We read Matthew 24, 7.
We ask, what do you think are the wars, famines and earthquakes that we've seen in recent years, the same as ever or a distinct fulfillment of Bible prophecy?
And what is the message that Jehovah is real, that Jehovah is alive, his word is coming true. And yet Paul went further, didn't he?
He didn't stop there. In verse 33, Paul said, God has completely fulfilled it to us. Yes, this is personal.
Jehovah is at work in your life in my life.
Then the big conclusion verses 38 through 41. In effect, Jehovah did this for you. Don't miss out. You can succeed with Jehovah's help.
That was Paul's answer to a simple request for a word of encouragement. That's why Paul made disciples.
And isn't that how we're counseled to fulfill our student assignments today, to strengthen and encourage your audience, we should show what Jehovah has done, what he is doing and what he will get to.
But Paul's speech was so persuasive that it also drew persecution, which followed him to the next two cities. In Listera, his persecutors thought they had killed him.
But Acts chapter 14 verses 20 and 21 says that on the next day, he left with Barnabas for Derby. After declaring the good news to that city and making quite a few disciples, they faced a choice.
You can see the choice on map B 13. We're looking at the red lines indicating Paul's first missionary tour. Derby is the last stop.
But notice the next town over to the east, Tarsus. Sound familiar? Saul of Tarsus. There was a passageway from Derby to Tarsus. Paul would have known the road.
He used it on his second missionary journey and his third missionary journey, but not this time.
Acts 14, 21 and the red arrows show that Paul returned to all three cities where he had been persecuted, including Pasidian Antioch, where he first received the request for a word of encouragement.
Why? Why return? It would have been so easy for him to think. You know, we've had a pretty good run here. I helped the ruler of Cyprus into the truth. I performed my first miracle striking elements blind.
We started new congregations in Pasidian Antioch, Iconium, Listera, Derby. I endured all manner of hardships, was beaten up and stoned and left for dead, successful missionary tour. But I need to regroup. No? He didn't think that way. Why?
Because the needs of the congregation outweighed his own personal feelings or fears. Do you suppose that the opposers who stoned him and left him for dead were any kinder to the new disciples in Listera?
Besides, who was taking the lead? Paul needed to appoint overseers. This was a wady task, so back they went. Likewise today, our brothers are putting the needs of the disciples ahead of their own comforts.
Do you remember these scenes from Jehovah's Witnesses, Faith in Action, Part 2, Let the Light Shine?
Brother Pillars explains that when he refused to salute the flag in Windsboro, Texas, he was beaten up and hanged. Thankfully, the rope broke and he survived to tell the story.
What the video doesn't tell us is that Oscar Pillars was a circuit overseer. So months later, guess where it was time for him to return?
Windsboro, Texas. Now, in the months since the hanging incident, the brothers hadn't been preaching downtown. They were preaching in the rurals. And brother Pillars reasoned that if he didn't preach downtown, the brothers may never get the courage to preach there.
So he checked out all the territories within city limits. They worked there all morning, had a beautiful time, no negative incident, except at the very last door, a woman said, say, you're one of Jehovah's Witnesses, aren't you? He said, yes, ma'am, I am.
She said, you know, we hanged one of you people here, and we'll do it again. But he didn't tell her that he was the one that they hanged, but what a beautiful example of standing with your brothers, putting their needs ahead of your own feelings.
And we have to say this Bethel family is not self-sparing when encouragement is needed. At times though, it could be easy to think, well, I just don't know what to say, but is saying something always necessary.
How do you suppose those enlistra felt just to see Paul again knowing what it must have taken for him emotionally, simply to return that that of itself spoke volumes.
Okay, but I still feel like I should say something. What did Paul say verse 22, we must enter into the kingdom of God through many tribulations, the kingdom, words of true encouragement, always center on the kingdom, not like Job's false confidors, clearly you have problems here, you must be doing something wrong. No, rather you're imitating Jesus, it brought the wrath of our enemy well done.
And that you're willing to suffer proves that this is real, you will see Jehovah back you up now, you will see him reward you in the future, stick with it.
Have you been called on to offer a word of encouragement? Don't overthink it, just go, stand beside those who need you.
And if you have any word of encouragement for the people, tell it.